Node.js has a number of components you'll need to be familiar with.
If you are already comfortable with Node,
feel free to skip over this section.
However, if you would like to brush up on your Node knowledge, stick around.
Your private blockchain is coded in JavaScript.
So, we'll be adding onto it Node.js
components for the data in the blockchain to be consumable.
The Node platform offers us a lot of components to help us built this out.
Now, we won't go into detail about all of them,
only focusing on critical components that we'll be interacting with in this project.
Let's start with the general concept of modules.
Related pieces of code are encapsulated into
modules and they can be thought of as JavaScript Libraries.
Node has different types of modules.
First off, there's a core modules.
Now, these are the bare minimum Node.js functionalities provided to you by the platform.
These include the HTTP module, which includes classes,
methods, and events to create a Node.js HTTP server.
There's also the FS module,
which helps you work with file input and output.
There are also third-party modules,
which are a wrapper for some API functions for third party companies.
For example, there's mongodb module,
and this is a wrapper to easily interact with mongodb.
Then, we have the package.json file.
Package.json is a file the lives in the root of your package/application.
It tells NPM how your package is structured and how to install it.
This is similar to a manifest in other applications.
Now, speaking of NPM or Node Package Manager,
this is a package manager for Node.js packages or modules.
For the project, you'll be using it to configure and manage project dependencies.
Lastly, we have the Node Version Manager or NVM.
This is a tool that allows you to seamlessly switch between different versions of Node.
You can install each version with
a single command and set a default via the command line interface.
For the project, you'll be using it to compare
Node versions and make a selection based on the project needs.
Instructions for installing NVM are linked down below.
There are wraps of the core components of Node that we'll be discussing.
Next, we'll take a look at the client and server features,
and how we can use them to configure API endpoints to retrieve and post block data.